# RA1
Github repo that contains the code written regarding the Research Assistanship 1 on Climate News Hedging 

The CRSP data file is to heavy and can't be uploaded on git. On the CRSP notebook it is imported as 'data.csv'. 

This project aimed at reproducing an effective procedure developed by Engle & al ("Hedging Climate Change News", 2020) to dynamically hedge climate change risk. It was conducted when I held a Research Assistant position at the ESSEC Finance Department, working under the supervision of Pr. Elise Gourier. The procedure is described below, as presented in the original paper. First, innovations from climate news series, that was constructed through textual analysis of newspapers, were extracted. A mimicking portfolio approach was used to build climate change hedge portfolios. Third-party ESG scores of firms were retrieved to model their climate risk exposures. This approach yields portfolios that perform well in hedging innovations in climate news both in sample and out of sample. 

This project was conducted using Python as a main programming language. One of the tools used to create the climate news index was a news article classifier. This classifier was an open-source BERT model from Hugging Face's transformers library, fine-tuned using PyTorch and data labeled by hand, it aimed at identifying climate change related news articles.This project aimed at reproducing an effective procedure developed by Engle & al ("Hedging Climate Change News", 2020) to dynamically hedge climate change risk. It was conducted when I held a Research Assistant position at the ESSEC Finance Department, working under the supervision of Pr. Elise Gourier. The procedure is described below, as presented in the original paper. First, innovations from climate news series, that was constructed through textual analysis of newspapers, were extracted. A mimicking portfolio approach was used to build climate change hedge portfolios. Third-party ESG scores of firms were retrieved to model their climate risk exposures. This approach yields portfolios that perform well in hedging innovations in climate news both in sample and out of sample. This project was conducted using Python as a main programming language. One of the tools used to create the climate news index was a news article classifier. This classifier was an open-source BERT model from Hugging Face's transformers library, fine-tuned using PyTorch and data labeled by hand, it aimed at identifying climate change related news articles.

